# 

# 

# **WELCOME TO THE DARK CITY**

---

*This is a completely homebrewed system based on several systems, mainly Fate Core. However no prior knowledge of those systems is needed to play. The rules are straightforward and explain everything you need to know.*  
---

**Play by Post:**  
Dark city is a GM-less game where you create your own narratives, challenges, and events, and participate in ‘scenes’ with your fellow citizens. You can come up with scenarios to take your characters through or follow along for the ride of someone else’s adventures. 

**The Setting:**  
This is a modern urban fantasy setting, basically any super huge city. Supernatural things are fairly commonplace, including things like monsters, magic, steampunk or even wild inventions, but would be mostly unknown about, simply just myths to the average person. The city seems something like an American hongkong, huge and sprawling but not overly hightech. It seems like a normal modern city at first glance, because strange things draw attention and often danger, supernatural beings need to maintain an appearance of normality. There are no defined descriptions of specific locations, buildings or weather. Everything is just a baseline for your imagination. It’s assumed that each area is large enough to contain anything. I.e you might want the park to have a river, someone else might have a completely different imagination of the area, both are fine and may exist. It’s only ‘determined’ when you start a scene. In short, you may take creative liberties with the locations, but not the general premise of the locations.

**The City:**  
The city, nicknamed “the Dark City” is your average metropolitan center. It has all the major amenities and enough space to get well lost in. While there are lots of supernatural happenings they are frequently brushed off as wild tales or superstitions, or simply the work of criminals or wild animals. Supernaturals in every sector make sure that no evidence for the existence of supernaturals ever makes it into the public for fear of world governments hunting them all to extinction. For the most part tho the beings here can safely go about their business with just a healthy amount of precautions to keep themselves and others safe. Of course there are also real criminals, actual wild animals like racoons, dog and coyote packs not to mention wild feral monsters all of which leave trails that local law enforcement are bound to follow up on, so supernaturals and monster hunters alike want to keep that from happening.  
---

#  SERVER RULES: 

**1**. **Respect everyone\!** No bullying of any kind ever, period. 

**2\.** **NO gratuitous sex or violence.** Think American T.V. standards. Extreme, even disturbing events can take place but don't need to be described in graphic detail. *18a is ok not R*

**3\.** **Don't Meta-game.** Having characters act upon player knowledge, which the character wouldn’t possess.

**4\.** **No godmodding,** controlling someone else’s character. Write how your character/NPC would most likely act or react in any situation. Never describe another PC's actions without talking to that player.

**5\.** **Don't try to WIN\!** This is a cooperative storytelling game. We all win when the story is fun, engaging and exciting. You want your character to face adversity and problems, easy is boring.   
---

# Overview:

* Gameplay proceeds much like writing a story cooperatively, each player in turn adding their characters' thoughts, feelings and actions. Your responsibilities include coming up with your character and tracking their stats, coming up with their story arc and their individual actions, and describing the scenes and all the non-player characters in the scene. ***(Remember: it's a thriving normal city. People are everywhere all the time.)***

* This is a cooperative storytelling game, so nothing is gained by min-maxing or cheating. The point is to make an interesting story. Often failing and then overcoming the problem makes for much more fun than just winning all the time. 

* Mechanically, it’s very simple. If there is no interesting opposition to what you want your character to do (and it's reasonable), they just do it. When facing any situation where multiple outcomes are possible, you roll the dice. Anytime that you go to do something that it's possible something else could happen, roll the dice and add any bonus.

### ***General Guidelines:*** 

* This is a welcoming adult community, not an ERP server. Sex, erotic, and nudity are part of adult life and such scenes can be transformative for characters (consenting adults), or even just wild fun but keep it feeling like a TV show rather than porn. Sex is fine but only as much as you’d see in a TV show or movie. When it gets more than that, \-FTB- (fade to black) and pick the scene up after.   
    
- **Regarding nudity:**

  While nudity is allowed as a story element in western-culture-sanctioned environments and situations, (strip-club, nude beach, sauna, bathroom, bedroom, accidents where clothes get destroyed, creation of a new body, etc) we generally draw the line at explicit descriptions of nipples, genitals, and so forth. Public nudity is discouraged and should, if part of a story element, be remedied immediately. Even in a Dark City RP environment, logic dictates that public exposure would generally lead to a timely arrest of your character by law enforcement.


- **Regarding erotic content:**

  While a sane dose of eroticism can spice up a romantic or seductive story element, we don’t want our decent readers to have to read through porn in order to get to the narratively important parts of a scene. If a scene is about to get explicit, use a \-FTB- (fade to black).


- **Regarding explicit and pornographic material (pictures and text):**

  Being horny isn’t a crime, it’s human. Regardless, we don’t wish to see that sort of content on the Dark City discord server. We know full well that some people enjoy ERP, so if you feel the need to have explicit RP with someone, keep it in your private DMs or your personal Google Drive. 


- **Regarding underage, animals & “innocent” characters:**

  Characters who are not consenting adults in either mind or body are forbidden from involvement in any erotic scenes or situations. It is advised to not test this limit as you likely won’t get a chance to justify your actions.


  

**THIS CONSTITUTES THE GAME’S ONLY INSTANT BAN OFFENSE\!**  
		**This rule extends to any linked off-server content as well.**

---

