# Story Mechanics 

Any time there is a chance for things to go one way or another during gameplay, you should roll the dice to determine the outcome. *If your character is actively trying to do something, you can add their skill in that area to the roll*. Decide which skill makes most sense for them to be applied to the situation and add it to the result of our roll. This is your character's “skill bonus” so if they don’t have a skill that makes sense they just don’t get a bonus for this roll.

### ***Rolling:***

The success of an action will be determined by a roll. A “Roll” is the result of 2 six-sided dice (d6) added together, plus any bonuses. The roll determines whether that action is a success or failure.  
**Roll Chart**

| \-6 | 6 & under | 7 | 8 | 9 | \+10 | 10 & over |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Failure | Mild Success | Success | Good Success | Total Success |

5 would be a little failure, 4 a pretty bad event, 3 a really bad event, 2 is the absolute worst case scenario. 

*\-In the case of an opposed roll, i.e you vs another player competing, whoever rolls higher wins.-*

### ***Character Aspects:***

Aspects confer your character's personality into bonuses, in situations it would impact the outcome of a dice roll. Every character gets only **two** *(semi-permanent)* Aspects at the start, these can be any **character-trait-adjectives** you feel suitably describes your character. (things like: Resolute, Excitable, Independent, Studious, Cunning, Charismatic, Mature, Compassionate, Mysterious, Vengeful, Curious, Silent).  
Select 2 from the list and add them to your discord roles.

### ***Temporary aspects:***

These can be added to your character ***anytime*** a move or something relevant happens to them that would cause an aspect to be added, *(i.e Exhausted, Wet, Scared)* In the same way aspects can also be removed when something relevant happens through gameplay, *(i.e Overcoming your arachnophobia, Drying off, cleaning up a mess etc).*

### ***Invoking aspects:***

Aspects can be “invoked” during gameplay, to get bonuses on rolls. For example a “Jacked” character trying to lift a heavy object could invoke their “Jacked” aspect by paying one Fate Point to get an extra \+2 points for the roll. You can also Invoke your Aspect to get a Fate Point, when doing so creates a new problem for yourself.

You can also suggest invokes to other players, when their character aspects would cause them a new problem. For example the “Jacked” character ignoring an obvious challenge to their strength could be told “ya but you're jacked” and if they choose to take up the challenge they receive a Fate Point.

### ***Injuries and Damage:***

Injuries and damage to your character (both physical and mental) persist and take real time to heal. Your injuries are represented by Temporary Negative Aspects and the more long term Aspects “Consequences”. The greater injuries, (Consequences, both physical and mental) take a lot longer to heal but can be slowly downgraded. Say a character gets a huge cut or a broken arm or becomes “Mortified” by an evening's events, after a few weeks these injuries would have had time to heal into, “Fresh scars”, “Tender arm” or “Recovering”, which would replace the Consequences with the new Negative Aspects. Negative Aspects and the like can also likewise be slowly healed over time through roleplay but will then no longer occupy a Consequence slot.   
Remember to mark down the dates you received the negative Aspects, minor injuries, and Consequences so you can accurately gauge the time it takes to heal.

### ***Leveling/Advancements:***

Every level (up to 5\) you get an Advancement, giving you the choice of; a new move *(from your original playbook, main/sub, or the advancements handout)* OR, you can add 1 to any one skill, even a new one*.* At level 5 *(your last advancement)* you get a double advancement and, by the time you reach level 6, MUST prepare to retire your character to NPC status, move them away, or kill them off. *As a retired Player Character NPC they have access to their old abilities but in a very restricted form. Ie. use of only one move once per scene. (Apart from passive moves.)* They can be either public or private as you like.

### ***Playbook Changes:***

Remember you can change your character's playbook when it makes sense story wise *(mortal into ghost, ghoul into calaca etc)*. Your XP remains the same, but you may take a different playbook’s “Darkest Self” and you must re-pick your moves according to the character creation and advancement rules. 

### ***Inventory and Money:***

Your character only has *(and has access to)* items that would make sense for them to have. Your **Wealth Skill** represents how much financial sway your character has. Purchasing items that wouldn't affect their bottom line or be difficult to find just happens in game and doesn’t need to be tracked in any way.   
\- Purchases that would be (or add up to be) a noticeable amount of your character's wealth, you must roll to see if your character can make the purchase happen. Any major loss/ expenditure or increase in your character’s wealth will change your **Wealth skill** accordingly (or add a negative Aspect, if only temporarily).   
\- Keeping a basic list of important items your character has available or on their person can make it much easier to track what is available during scenes.

# System Mechanics 

***“How the game works”***

### ***Fate points:***

* Fate points are your character's influence over fate, it's their social currency, keep track of it during your scenes. Fate can be used and gained in multiple ways, some moves require you to spend Fate Points and some allow you to get Fate Points. If a character starts the scene with no Fate Points, they gain 1 Fate Point.  
  * *You can only ever have a max of 5 Fate Points, but they carry over scene to scene.*  
  * *You can only ever use one Fate Point on each roll, whether that is for rerolling or invoking is your choice.*

### ***FP Rerolls:***

* Fate points can be used to reroll one of your rolls. When rerolling a roll, you get the choice of which roll to use.

### 

### ***Invoking Aspects:*** 

* Aspects are both in character sheets and in game. You can ‘Invoke’ Aspects by explaining how the Aspect is **substantially** affecting the situation. Things like; your character rolls to find a secret entrance but fails, if they had “Street smart” or “Observant” or something like that you could get \+2 on the roll. Or your character rolled a 3 to lift this truck and that would be a fail ***but*** they have the “Try hard” Aspect or the “Tough guy” or “Heroic” Aspect which push them to accomplish the goal that much harder. It costs a Fate Point but you get \+2, and along with the character’s Physique 3 stat that would push the roll up to a pass.  
    
- When you “Invoke an Aspect” to benefit yourself, you get a \+2 to that related roll.  
- ***Alternatively***, you can Invoke an Aspect negatively against anyone  to get \-2 to their roll (*i.e invoking their “exhausted” Aspect for \-2 to their Athletic roll, or invoking the “Wet floor” on someone running)*.   
- Problems can lead to some of the most interesting stories. If invoking a character’s Aspect would cause them a new problem, it grants them a Fate Point if they choose to do it.


### ***Creating an Advantage:***

* “Creating an advantage” by changing something in the scene can make Temporary Aspects appear *(i.e your character drinks heavily, giving you the ‘Drunk’ Aspect, or kick over a bucket of water, giving the floor the 'Wet' Aspect)*. Any Temporary Aspects you actively create in this way can be Invoked by you once for free *(without paying a Fate Point)* for the \+2 or \-2.

## Conflict:

* There are both Mental and Physical conflicts in this game. Mental conflicts can include any kind of non-physical aggression. Bullying in all its forms, even posturing or posing can be a kind of mental conflict and deal harm in the form of mental wear and tear. 


* Same as when outside of conflict, anytime you attempt to take an action during a conflict  you should quickly assess the skill list and select the skill the character is most likely using. Like if you're in an argument and going to try to lie about something, roll Deceive.

### ***\- VS NPCs***

* In conflict with NPCs, simply subtract that character's skill bonus (if applicable) from your roll+bonus total and compare against the standard \+10, 7-9, 6- scale. 

* Nameless characters only get one or two \+1 or \+2 skills, based on their role in the scene. Your average bouncer or security guard might have \+2 Fight and/or \+1 Shoot, while your average clerk might only have \+2 Lore. Generally omit them from having stress caps, but this is a case by case basis. Go with whatever makes the most sense for the NPC/ Monster. Be it dying after losing the roll by 1 point etc, (Note see writing doc for creating Monsters/Npc) or being able to take one decent hit before going down depends on what kind of creature they are. Huge and powerful enemies are the only ones who may have a stat (Will or Physique) high enough to qualify for the stress cap bonus, and anyone smaller than your average tough guy wouldn’t even qualify for one. Meaning when they get hit the first time it will cause a Consequence and being “Taken Out”.

### ***\- VS Player characters***

*Any scenario where two or more characters are working against each other for some purpose.*   
**Races, chases and competitions** should proceed with players taking turns making appropriate skill rolls, until it makes sense story wise that one character has won.  
(When more than 2 characters are involved, the last acting character chooses the next character to act and can’t be chosen again themselves until each character has gone.)

***Confrontations,*** When someone begins an attack by describing their character’s actions, *(in a Mental conflict this could be someone calling names or just being overly aggressive or mean)* they roll, and add a related skill to attack, **then** it becomes the defenders turn to decide how their character would react to the attack *(after the attack is posted but before the impact occurs, verbal or physical).* Defender rolls *(adding the appropriate skill; Athletic-dodge, Physique-block, or Will for verbal )*, then subtract their total from the attackers initial total, the result is the total damage: *(anything above 0 is considered “Overlapping Damage”.)* 

* If after subtraction the result is less than 1, it's a successful defense.   
* If that overlapping damage is under the defender's stress total, it does only minimal damage (1-barely, 2-just, 3-kinda hurts) giving an appropriate Minor Injury or Temporary Negative Aspect.   
* If the overlapping damage is higher than the defenders stress cap, they take a more serious hit (4-hurts, 5-real pain, 6-debilitates) and they are forced to take a Consequence (a semi-permanent Aspect that reflects the damage, like; traumatized, broken, stabbed, shot etc).

**Either way, “the defender” describes the resulting consequence of the attack,** be it "they deflect the blade" or "they deftly get out of the way" or whatever the resulting damage is. 

**\*\*Remember the damage type depends on the weapon.**   
**I.e. if damaged by a gun they get grazed or shot, a knife slices etc etc \*\***

The Overlapping Damage amount (defenders roll \+ Physique/Athletic or Will depending, subtracted from the attackers roll) tells you how much damage is done, but what kind of damage they receive depends on the attack, ie a 2 from a gun is a graze but a 2 from a knife could be a small cut, where as a 6 from a gun would be an actual hit, but not life threatening, but from a knife it would be a well placed stab. Both result in very similar “amounts'' of damage, though the injuries would be quite different and heal differently too. 

*Characters can take a near unlimited amount of attacks if they do less damage then their stress caps (though they still take minor injuries as Temporary Negative Aspects), but they can only take one or two really damaging attacks before succumbing.*

Meaning that they can take damage from attacks that are not higher than their associated stress cap without getting taken out (only receiving consecutive small injuries). However, an attack of more than that threshold would cause them a more serious injury (a Consequence) and would give that character a new Aspect (shaken, depressed, bleeding, broken etc) which will take much longer to heal. **\-Remember-** Injuries (or damage, incase of artificial bodies) take a realistic amount of time to heal or repair, including getting materials etc.

**If a character has taken their maximum amount of consequences and then takes another one, they get "taken out"** *(unless they go darkest self).* Mental and Physical wounds take the same in game time or help to heal as it would irl (without magic). Being “taken out” in a mental conflict causes your character to lose all will to continue and similarly grants scene control to the victor (within reason, no dying of embarrassment).

## Darkest Self & “Taken Out”

**—Your character *CANNOT* die without your Out-Of-Character consent—**  
With that in mind, when your character can't take another Consequence but is faced with one, you’re presented with two options.

*  First of those is your Darkest Self. When you enter your Darkest Self, **temporarily double your Consequence caps**. And in your Darkest Self you can follow what would narratively make sense, and react to injuries according to their state of mind. Would you continue fighting in your Darkest Self until you’re Taken Out? Would your opponents fight or run away as you rampage until someone snaps you out of it? If you do come out of your darkest self, any injuries you sustained would still be there.  
* Second and the only possibility if you are already in “Darkest Self” is being “Taken Out”. **You describe** the sustaining extreme damage that would require some time to heal *(add the consequence)*, rendering them incapable of continuing. The winner now has total narrative control and can finish the scene any way they like *(within reason)*.   
* You can escape your Darkest Self in two ways. Either you meet the requirement listed in your Darkest Self or get taken out while still in it.  
  


### ***PC Death:***

Characters die, but any character deaths **ABSOLUTELY** have to be fully discussed and agreed upon by all involved parties. There’s nothing stopping you from killing off your character if you want to for narrative reasons etc. We just recommend that you save that possibility for conflicts that are extremely pivotal, dramatic, and meaningful for that character—in other words, conflicts in which that character would knowingly and willingly risk dying in order to win.   
---

